
1. Hum Brain Mapp. 2013 Oct 15. doi: 10.1002/hbm.22390. [Epub ahead of print]

Plasma tau as a window to the brain-negative associations with brain volume and
memory function in mild cognitive impairment and early alzheimer's disease.

Chiu MJ, Chen YF, Chen TF, Yang SY, Yang FP, Tseng TW, Chieh JJ, Chen JC, Tzen
KY, Hua MS, Horng HE.

Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei,
100, Taiwan; Institute of Brain and Mind Sciences, College of Medicine, National 
Taiwan University, Taipei, 100, Taiwan; Department of Psychology, National Taiwan
University, Taipei, 116, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of Biomedical Engineering and
Bio-informatics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 116, Taiwan.

Neurofibrillary tangles are associated with cognitive dysfunction, and
hippocampal atrophy with increased CSF tau markers. However, the plasma tau
levels of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have not been well studied. We investigated
plasma tau by using an immunomagnetic reduction assay in 20 patients with mild
cognitive impairment (MCI) due to AD, 10 early AD dementia, and 30 healthy elders
(HE). All received a 3D-brain MRI scan and a set of cognitive function test. We
explored their relationships with both brain structure and cognitive functions.
Images were analyzed to determine the brain volumes and gray matter densities.
Patients with MCI or early AD had significantly increased plasma tau levels
compared with HE. Plasma tau levels were negatively associated with the
performance of logical memory, visual reproduction, and verbal fluency; also
negatively associated with volume of total gray matter, hippocampus, amygdala;
and gray matter densities of various regions. Regression analyses indicated that 
logical memory explained 0.394 and hippocampus volume predicted .608 of the
variance of plasma tau levels, both P < 0.001. Education years were negatively
associated with the gray matter densities of the supramarginal (r = -0.407),
middle temporal gyrus (r = -0.40) and precuneus (r = -0.377; all P < 0.05) in HE;
and negatively associated with plasma tau levels in patients (r = -0.626). We
propose that plasma tau may serve as a window to both structure and function of
the brain. Higher education is a protective factor against AD and is associated
with lower plasma tau levels in patients. Hum Brain Mapp, 2013. © 2013 Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

PMID: 24129926  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]

