1. Curr Opin Oncol. 2017 Sep;29(5):307-314. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000396.

The genetics of Hodgkin lymphoma: an overview and clinical implications.

Borchmann S(1), Engert A.

Author information: 
(1)German Hodgkin Study Group (GHSG), Department I of Internal Medicine,
University Hospital Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The goal of this review is to give an overview of the genetics
of classical Hodgkin lymphoma. Copy number changes, somatic mutations,
genome-wide association studies, changes in gene expression, familial classical
Hodgkin lymphoma and epigenetic changes will be reviewed. In doing so, special
focus is placed on the way recent discoveries have influenced clinical research, 
diagnostics, treatment and remission monitoring. Furthermore, emphasis is put on 
how these advances can help to advance the treatment of elderly patients who have
a markedly worse prognosis than younger patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: Frequent amplifications of the 9p24.1 locus in classical Hodgkin
lymphoma could be the basis for the success of immune checkpoint inhibitors
targeting PD-1 or PD-L1 in this disease. The same amplification also affects the 
JAK/STAT pathway, which has also been targeted in recent clinical trials. Hodgkin
lymphoma-specific copy number alterations and mutations have recently been found 
to be detectable in cell-free DNA. This could provide the basis for advances in
the detection of residual disease during treatment and while monitoring patients 
in remission.
SUMMARY: The advent of new technologies such as massive parallel sequencing has
improved our understanding of the genetics of classical Hodgkin lymphoma. Some of
these discoveries are now being translated into clinical research in the form of 
new diagnostics and treatments.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000396 
PMID: 28697001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]
